Hi, I'm Chris Cunningham.
If you missed my earlier WebCodecs primer talk,
I encourage you to check that one out first.
4-p
In this talk, I'm going to focus
on WebCodecs encoding configuration.
The idea is to surface what we have
and the reasoning behind it,
and have you tell us what to prioritize next.
If you look at our configuration structure
and compare that to FFmpeg or libvpx,
it will immediately be clear that we have
lots of knobs we could consider adding.
13-p
Having said that, there are lots of folks who
are using WebCodecs and encoding
in media production settings and apps.
Don't let this talk scare you off.
slide-2
Before I get into the structure,
I wanna mention the underlying design principle,
which is "don't constrain features
or quality unless the user asks for it".
21-p
For encoding defaults,
this might mean we don't constrain quality
for the sake of latency.
We don't constrain bit rate unless requested.
It's VBR by default.
We allow B-frames wherever the profile
that is configured would allow B-frames.
slide-3
Another thing to mention.
When you start encoding, the output callback will
also admit a metadata dictionary
that contains the video decoding config.
This is obviously very important
if you want to eventually decode the content you encoded.
34-p
And then it admits that same config
anytime the configuration changes,
such that, now you need a slightly different configuration
to decode what is now being output.
38-p
I mention this because it's useful
to describe some of the encoder configuration parameters
we're about to get into, in terms of
their effect on the admitted decoder config.
slide-4
All right, so here we have just a screenshot
from the spec.
This is the video encoder config dictionary.
At the top, we've got the required parameters.
We have codec, which is a codec string,
very similar to what you would see in MSE
or media capabilities.
This is like for H.264,
It's av1 dot profile byte, level byte.
For VP9, it's VP09 dot profile dot so-on.
AV1, AV01.
For all codecs that are usable WebCodecs,
you can go to the WebCodecs specification "Codec Registry",
and there you can look up the specific codec strings
to use for a given codec.
57-p
All right, so next we have width and height,
and this is the number of pixels to encode.
For video frames, this corresponds
to visible width and visible height.
For decoder config, this corresponds to display.
No.
It's again visible with and visible height.
If you give us a video frame with a visible width
and height that don't match these dimensions,
we will actually scale the frame before we encode,
and that is originally motivated
by RTC use cases, where the camera's open
to the high resolution, but then
you want the encoder to be able to encode
at whatever resolution, because your needs fluctuate
with the changes in bit rate and CPU load.
73-p
Okay, so moving on, we are now into optional parameters.
There's displayWidth and displayHeight.
If not provided, these default
to the width and height we just talked about,
and generally, that's probably
what most people want.
Where this is interesting is for things
like anamorphic content, where the pixel's
actually wider than it is tall
when finally rendered.
We actually stretch the rendered video just slightly.
84-p
Then we have bit rate.
The default is implementer-defined.
In Chrome, it's gonna be whatever the underlying codec,
like let's say libvpx would use,
if you didn't specify a bit rate.
That's probably not what you want.
If you're using this production,
I recommend setting bit rate,
in which case I also recommend setting the next knob,
which is frame rate.
The value here can be rough,
like variable frame rate video's common.
But the idea is to guide the rate controller.
Bit rate is bits per second.
And so you need to know how many frames per second
to know how many bits to give a given frame.
100-p
On our roadmap, we intend to also use frame timestamps
to refine this.
The minute that you said 30 fps,
but we detected it's actually closer
to 25 in this one segment of your video,
or it's much higher than that in some other segment,
we should adjust rate control accordingly.
But even then, it's good to provide
some sort of baseline upfront,
because we won't have any timestamps
until some initial frames come in.
111-p
All right, so I'm gonna go out of order
just a second and keep talking about bit rate.
Next thing I'm gonna say is bitrateMode.
This is second from the bottom.
This is variable by default,
and then the alternative is, of course, constant.
117-p
We aren't super prescriptive about
how constant or how variable, like
what is the buffer size that we're talking about here?
And that reflects the reality that WebCodecs is built
on top of many codec compilations,
which, themselves, are not super prescriptive or consistent.
123-p
Having said that, some libraries do offer a
lot more knobs here,
so options to configure the buffer size,
the amount of overshoot or undershoot,
and we are open to adding those.
Let us know if you need them.
129-p
Okay, so now I'm gonna go back up
and start with the ones that I missed.
131-p
hardwareAcceleration:
so the wording here, it reads like a hint.
No preference.
Prefer hardware.
But browsers have the option to treat
this as a hint or to treat it as a requirement,
and in Chrome, we treat it as a requirement.
138-p
If you say prefer hardware
and we don't have the hardware,
or if we can't support some aspect
of your configuration in hardware,
we will fail to configure, which is fine.
It can be actually very useful.
You can use the isConfigSupported check
in advance to figure out where the support will lie.
But you could, let's say if you were
really worried about power savings
and you had a lot of flexibility
in the codec that you were choosing,
you could use this to iterate over options
on the platform to see, okay, it has accelerated encoding
for 264, but maybe not for VP9,
so that's the one I'm gonna use
because I'm very power-conscious
on this platform, whatever.
Or maybe you have a WASM fallback that you prefer.
You wanna use our hardware encoding,
but if it's gonna be software,
you prefer to use your software,
and that's also totally fine.
161-p
Most folks will probably just take the default
of no preference, and for that default,
Chrome will always try to find hardware
for the codec and then fall back to software
if hardware wasn't available.
166-p
Actually a small caveat on that.
It will find hardware above a certain resolution cut-off.
Below a certain resolution point,
using a hardware-accelerated codec is not desirable.
It actually can be a little bit
more in startup costs and no savings in power,
in which case we use software.
173-p
All right, scalabilityMode.
This is a string that identifies patterns
of layering for scalable codecs.
For media production, you probably don't care about this.
You probably just want one layer.
This is probably more interesting for RTC folks.
The lead spec here, WebRTC SVC,
has lots more details in the diagrams
and patterns of scalability layering.
And then finally latencyMode.
This is, by default, "quality",
where the other option is, what is it?
"realtime".
Most folks in this group probably want quality,
but it's interesting to talk about realtime,
because obviously very useful for realtime scenarios.
But there's an interaction with some of the knobs above,
which is that, in realtime, we strive
to get the frames out and achieve the bit rate target
and the frame rate target more strictly.
We'll actually use frame rate as kind of a deadline.
If we can't encode a frame in realtime mode
and maintain the frame rate, in terms of our output,
then we will drop frames, where encoders support that.
slide-5
Okay, so those are our different knobs
that we have so far.
This is a link to our GitHub.
Please let us know what you need.
We like to prioritize things by impact.
If you can tell us why you need it,
what is it you plan to do with it,
how is it gonna be a better experience for your users,
if you come to our GitHub and you already see an issue filed
for the knob that you want, pile on.
Again, that's impact, to say, hey,
there's five apps that want this knob.
Okay, we'll pay attention to that, sure.
210-p
Yeah, that's it.
Thank you so much for watching.